>> Sreenivasan: THE U.S. JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT, IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
EUROPEAN INVESTIGATORS, HAS SHUT
DOWN TWO OF THE WORLD'S LARGEST
WEBSITES ON WHAT IS KNOWN AS THE
DARK WEB.
THE BLACK MARKET SITES WERE
ALLEGEDLY PURVEYORS OF ILLEGAL
DRUGS, GUNS, AND HACKING TOOLS
ACCORDING TO FEDERAL CHARGES
ANNOUNCED ON THURSDAY.
"WIRED" MAGAZINE REPORTER ANDY
GREENBERG IS COVERING THE CASE
AND JOINS ME NOW TO DISCUSS IT.
SO, FIRST OF ALL, HOW
SIGNIFICANT WERE THESE BUSTS?
>> WELL, THIS IS DEFINITELY ONE
OF THE LARGEST BLOWS, LAW
ENFORCEMENT BLOWS TO THE DARK
WEB IN A VERY LONG TIME.
NOT ONLY IN TERMS OF SCALE,
BECAUSE THE BIGGEST OF THESE
SITES CALLED ALPHABAY, HAD TEN
TIMES AS MANY ILLEGAL PRODUCT
LISTINGS AS THE SILK ROAD.
REMEMBER, THE SILK ROAD WAS THE
ORIGINAL SORT OF DARK WEB
MARKET.
BUT ALSO THEY TOOK DOWN ANOTHER
SITE, HANSA, WHICH WAS THE
THIRD LARGEST DARK WEB MARKET,
AND BEFORE THEY TOOK IT DOWN
THEY CONTROLLED IT FOR A FULL
MONTH, SO THEY WERE ABLE TO
OBSERVE WHAT WAS HAPPENING
IN THAT UNDERGROUND MARKET AND
PROBABLY IDENTIFIED THOUSANDS OF
ITS USERS WHO MAY NOW BE
ARRESTED.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHEN ONE OF
THESE SITES WENT DOWN, DID ALL
OF THOSE USERS MOVE TO THE OTHER
SITE?
>> THIS WAS KIND OF THE TRAP
THAT THE INTERNATIONAL POLICE
FORCES... THIS WAS ACTUALLY THE
F.B.I., D.E.A., EUROPOL AND THE
DUTCH POLICE ALL WORKING
TOGETHER.
THEY TOOK CONTROL OF THE THIRD
LARGEST SITE, AND THEN WEEKS
LATER SHUT DOWN THE VERY LARGEST
SITE AND THAT SORT OF SENT ALL
OF THE LARGEST SITE'S USERS,
ALPHABAY'S USERS, FLOCKING TO
THAT OTHER SITE SO THEY'RE ABLE
TO WATCH THEM REGISTER, THEY'RE
ABLE TO WATCH THEM DO SOME
TRANSACTIONS, PROBABLY GAIN THE
IDENTIFYING DETAILS OF MANY MORE
USERS THAT WAY.
THAT WAS CERTAINLY PART OF THEIR
INTENTION AND I THINK IT ALSO
CREATED A KIND OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
IMPACT.
THERE IS A FEAR IN THE DARK
NET NOW THAT COPS ARE
EVERYWHERE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO ARE THESE
USERS... I MEAN, THEY DON'T USE
THEIR REAL NAMES, BUT IF THEY'RE
BUYING OR SELLING PRODUCTS,
THOSE PHYSICAL PRODUCTS HAVE TO
GO SOMEPLACE IN THE REAL WORLD,
LIKE A MAILING ADDRESS, RIGHT?
IF YOU'RE BUYING DRUGS, YOU
PHYSICALLY HAVE TO GET CONTROL
OF IT.
DOES THAT MEAN THAT NOW THE
POLICE OR THE DIFFERENT
AUTHORITIES SAY NOW I KNOW I'VE
GOT YOUR ADDRESS.
>> IN THEORY, WHEN YOU BUY
DRUGS ON THE DARK WEB, YOU
ENCRYPT YOUR ADDRESS AND THEN
YOU SEND THAT ENCRYPTED ADDRESS
TO THE SELLER OF THE DRUGS, SO
THAT ONLY THE HE OR SHE CAN
DECRYPT IT AND SEE YOUR ACTUAL
WHERE YOU LIVE.
BUT LOTS OF USERS ARE CARELESS.
I WOULD SAY A MAJORITY OF USERS,
FROM WHAT I'VE SEEN ON DARK WEB
FORUMS, DON'T ENCRYPT THEIR
ADDRESSES.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU KNOW, THIS
REMINDS ME, YOU MENTIONED SILK
ROAD, WHEN THAT WENT DOWN, WE
THOUGHT THAT WAS GOING TO HAVE A
BIG IMPACT, BUT THIS IS AN
ECONOMY THAT MOVES ON, RIGHT?
TWO OTHER, THREE OTHER SITES POP
UP.
SO WHAT HAPPENS NOW?
>> THIS IS DEFINITELY NOT THE
FIRST OF THESE TAKEDOWNS AND
NONE OF THEM HAVE TAKEN A
PERMANENT BITE OUT OF THE DARK
WEB.
THE SILK ROAD IN 2013, THE
SECOND SILK ROAD, THE SEQUEL
SITE, WAS TAKEN DOWN IN 2014.
EACH TIME THE DARK WEB BOUNCES
BACK IN LARGE PART BECAUSE
PEOPLE ARE ADDICTED TO DRUGS AND
THE DEMAND DOESN'T GO AWAY IF
THEY CAN ONLY OR MOST EASILY
OBTAIN THE DRUGS THEY WANT
THROUGH THE DARK WEB INSTEAD OF
FROM THE STREETS, THEN THEY ARE
GOING TO COME BACK AND THEY
HAVE EVERY TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: SO DOES THIS
MEAN THE AUTHORITIES HAVE A
WAY TO CRACK TOR, WHICH
EVERYBODY THOUGHT WAS THIS
TOTALLY ENCRYPTED, SAFE WAY TO
COMMUNICATE ANONYMOUSLY?
>> WE DON'T KNOW HOW AT LEAST
THE THIRD LARGEST SITE IN THIS
TAKEDOWN WAS CRACKED.
THE FIRST LARGEST SITE,
ALPHABAY, THE ADMINISTRATOR HAD
ACTUALLY POSTED HIS EMAIL
ADDRESS IN THE WELCOME MESSAGE
TO THE SITE IN 2014.
THAT WAS THE FIRST CLUE THAT
ALLOWED AUTHORITIES TO START
TRACING HIM BACK TO HIS HOME
IN THAILAND, ARREST HIM.
HE ACTUALLY COMMITTED SUICIDE IN
THE THAI JAIL.
SO, IN THAT CASE, IT DOESN'T
SEEM THAT THERE WAS ANY KIND OF
TOUR BREAK THAT WAS NECESSARY.
BUT IN OTHER CASES, IT DOES
SEEM THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS
BROKEN TOR.
EACH TIME, TOR USUALLY FIGURES
OUT WHAT WENT WRONG AND
PATCHES THAT FLAW, SO IT BECOMES
BECOMES SECURE AGAIN.
>> Sreenivasan: ANDY GREENBERG
OF "WIRED" MAGAZINE, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.